Text Access Text Access  ChengXiang Cheng Zhai Department of Computer Science University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  1   Course Schedule  Small Relevant Data  User  11. Recommendation  2. Text Access  2. Text Access  Recommender System  Search Engine  1. Natural Language Content Analysis  3. Text Retrieval Problem  4. Text Retrieval Methods  5. Vector Space Model  6. System Implementation  7. Evaluation  8. Probabilistic Model  9. Feedback  10. Web Search  Big Text Data  2  Access to Relevant Text Data  How can a text information system help users get access to the relevant text data?  Push vs. Pull Querying vs. Browsing  3   Two Modes of Text Access: Pull vs. Push  Pull Mode (search engines) Users take initiative Ad hoc information need Push Mode (recommender systems) Systems take initiative Stable information need or system has good knowledge about a user s need  4   Pull Mode: Querying vs. Browsing  Querying  User enters a (keyword) query System returns relevant documents Works well when the user knows what keywords to use  Browsing  User navigates into relevant information by following a path enabled by the structures on the documents Works well when the user wants to explore information, doesnt know what keywords to use, or cant conveniently enter a query  5  Information Seeking as Sightseeing  Sightseeing: Know address of an attraction?  Yes: take a taxi and go directly to the site No: walk around or take a taxi to a nearby place then walk    Information seeking: Know exactly what you want to find?  Yes: use the right keywords as a query and find the information directly No: browse the information space or start with a rough query and then browse  6   Summary  Small Relevant Data  User  Push  2. Text Access  Pull  Recommender System  +  Search Engine  Querying + Browsing  1. Natural Language Content Analysis  Big Text Data  7  Additional Reading  N. J. Belkin and W. B. Croft. 1992. Information filtering and information retrieval: two sides of the same coin?. Commun. ACM 35, 12 (Dec. 1992), 29- 38.  8 
