Text Clustering: Evaluation Text Clustering: Evaluation  ChengXiang Cheng Zhai Department of Computer Science University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  1   Overview  What is text clustering? Why text clustering? How to do text clustering?  Generative probabilistic models Similarity-based approaches  How to evaluate clustering results?  2   The Clustering Bias  Any two objects can be similar, depending on how you look at them! A user must define the perspective (i.e., a bias) for assessing similarity!  Basis for evaluation  3   Direct Evaluation of Text Clusters  Question to answer: How close are the system-generated clusters to the ideal clusters (generated by humans)?  Closeness can be assessed from multiple perspectives Closeness can be quantified Clustering bias is imposed by the human assessors  Evaluation procedure:  Given a test set, have humans to create an ideal clustering result (i.e., an ideal partitioning of text objects or gold standard) Use a system to produce clusters from the same test set Quantify the similarity between the system-generated clusters and the gold standard clusters Similarity can be measured from multiple perspectives (e.g., purity, normalized mutual information, F measure)  4  Indirect Evaluation of Text Clusters  Question to answer: how useful are the clustering results for the intended applications?  Usefulness is inevitably application specific Clustering bias is imposed by the intended application  Evaluation procedure:  Create a test set for the intended application to quantify the performance of any system for this application Choose a baseline system to compare with Add a clustering algorithm to the baseline system  clustering system Compare the performance of the clustering system and the baseline in terms of any performance measure for the application  5  Summary of Text Clustering  Text clustering is an unsupervised general text mining technique to  obtain an overall picture of the text content (exploring text data) discover interesting clustering structures in text data  Many approaches are possible  Strong clusters tend to show up no matter what method used Effectiveness of a method highly depends on whether the desired clustering bias is captured appropriately (either through using the right generative model or the right similarity function) Deciding the optimal number of clusters is generally a difficult problem for any method due to the unsupervised nature  Evaluation of clustering results can be done both directly and indirectly  6  Suggested Reading  Manning, Chris D., Prabhakar Raghavan, and Hinrich Schtze. Introduction to Information Retrieval. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2007. (Chapter 16)  7 
