Natural Language Content Analysis Natural Language Content Analysis  ChengXiang Cheng Zhai Department of Computer Science University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  1   Natural Language Content Analysis  5. Text-based prediction 5. Text-based prediction  3. Topic mining & analysis 3. Topic mining & analysis  Real World  Observed World  Text Data  Perceive  (Perspective)  Express  (English)  1. Natural language 1. Natural language processing  & text processing  & text representation representation  4. Opinion mining & sentiment analysis  2. Word association mining  & analysis  2  Basic Concepts in NLP  A   dog   is   chasing   a   boy   on   the   playground  Det Noun Aux  Verb  Det Noun Prep Det  Noun  Semantic analysis  Noun Phrase Complex Verb  Noun Phrase  Verb Phrase  Verb Phrase  Sentence  Dog(d1). Boy(b1). Playground(p1). Chasing(d1,b1,p1).  +  Scared(x) if Chasing(_,x,_).  Scared(b1)  Inference  Lexical analysis (part-of-speech tagging)  Noun Phrase  Prep Phrase  Syntactic analysis (Parsing)  A person saying this may be reminding another person to get the dog back.  Pragmatic analysis (speech act)  3  NLP Is Difficult!  Natural language is designed to make human communication efficient. As a result, we omit a lot of common sense knowledge, which we assume the hearer/reader possesses. we keep a lot of ambiguities, which we assume the hearer/reader knows how to resolve. This makes EVERY step in NLP hard Ambiguity is a killer! Common sense reasoning is pre-required.  4   Examples of Challenges  Word-level ambiguity: design can be a noun or a verb (ambiguous POS) root has multiple meanings (ambiguous sense) Syntactic ambiguity: natural language processing (modification) A man saw a boy with a telescope. (PP Attachment) Anaphora resolution: John persuaded Bill to buy a TV for himself. (himself = John or Bill?) Presupposition: He has quit smoking  implies that he smoked before.  5  The State of the Art  A   dog   is   chasing   a   boy   on   the   playground  Det Noun Aux  Verb  Det Noun Prep Det  Noun  POS Tagging: 97%  Noun Phrase Complex Verb  Noun Phrase  Noun Phrase  Prep Phrase  Verb Phrase  Parsing: partial >90%(?)  Semantics: some aspects  - Entity/relation extraction - Word sense disambiguation - Sentiment analysis  Inference: ???  Verb Phrase  Sentence  Speech act analysis: ???  6   What We Cant Do  100% POS tagging  He turned off the highway. vs He turned off the fan.  General complete parsing  A man saw a boy with a telescope.  Precise deep semantic analysis  Will we ever be able to precisely define the meaning of own  in John owns a restaurant?  Robust  and general NLP tends to be shallow while deep understanding doesnt scale up.  7    Summary  NLP is the foundation for text mining Computers are far from being able to understand natural language  Deep NLP requires common sense knowledge and inferences, thus only working for very limited domains Shallow NLP based on statistical methods can be done in large scale and is thus more broadly applicable  In practice: statistical NLP as the basis, while humans provide help as needed  8   Additional Reading  Manning, Chris and Hinrich Schtze. Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing. Cambridge: MIT Press, 1999.  9 
